2024-01-14

## Optional / Configurable Features
Optional features are those that can be configured at the installation instance level, the tenant level, or the individual account level. These features create a performance hit, so disabling them at the instance level will result in faster transaction insert performance.

* Multi-tenancy.
    - Scope: instance
        - Settings.Blackledger.multi_tenant
    - Values: true, false. default = false
        - true: every account, transaction, and transaction entry must have an explicit tenant. Every transaction entry must have the same tenant as both the transaction and the account.
        - false: every account, transaction, and entry is automatically assigned the "root" tenant id and no checking is done for tenancy consistency between a transaction and its accounts when posting a transaction.

* Optimistic locking / concurrency control - When enabled for a transaction, each transaction entry must be posted with the currently-stored account_version for that entry's account; if not, the transaction is rejected (HTTP 412 Precondition Failed).

    - Values: enforced, enabled, disabled. default = enabled.

        - enforced: All transactions in the configuration scope must have correct account entry version in each entry.
        - enabled: Transactions in the configuration scope that include account entry versions must have them correct.
        - disabled: Transactions in the configuration scope must not include account entry versions, no queries are done to check for proper values, and no accounts are updated along with posting a transaction.

    - Scope: instance, tenant, account

        - instance: applies to all transactions in the instance
            - Settings.Blackledger.optimistic_locking
        - tenant: applies to all transactions in the tenant
            - Tenant.optimistic_locking
        - account: applies to all transactions on the account
            - Account.optimistic_locking

* Automatic cached balances.
    - Scope: instance, tenant, account
    - Values: true, false. default = false
        - true: account balances are cached during each transaction (along with the entry version).
        - false: account balances are not cached during the transaction; they can be cached later (e.g., after being calculated).

* Event streaming: Enable other services to stay up-to-date with the ledger by streaming all insert / update / delete events.
    - Scope: instance, tenant
    - Values: true, false. default = false
        - true: each insert / update / delete event on accounts and transactions is streamed to the configured event streaming service (publisher) with the configured topic.
        - false: no insert / update / delete event on accounts and transactions are streamed.

* Cryptographic verifiability: Enable client applications to verify that the transaction history has not been changed.
    - Scope: instance, tenant, account
    - Values: true, false. default = false
        - true: each transaction entry is stored with the id and hash of the previous transaction entry.
        - false: no hash or id of the previous transaction entry is stored.

* Authentication: Enable owner to ensure that all client users / applications are allowed to access the ledger.
    - Scope: instance
    - Values: true, false. default = true
        - true: all requests must be authenticated with a signed JWT that is verified as having the correct signature, issuer, audience, and timestamps.
        - false: all requests are allowed without authentication.

* Relationship-based access control: Protect endpoints based on the caller's relationship with the objects that it includes.
    - Scope: instance
    - Values: true, false. default = false
    - Entities: users, groups, tenants, accounts, transactions
    - Permissions: read, create, update, delete